Python_Challenge

This module includes two Python challenges: PyPoll and PyBank. In both challenges we will be using Python scripting to analyze large sums of data.

Before you begin:
  Ensure you create a new GitHub Repository for this module.
  In GitBash create two separate folders to store content for each challenge.
  Ensure you include a main script, resources folder, and analysis folder in each challenge.
  Push these changes to your GitHub Repository.

PyBank
  Create a script to analyze financial records of a company using the dataset budget_data.csv.
  Find the following values using Python:
    The total number of months included in the dataset
    The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
    The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes
    The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
    The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

  Print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results. Export the text file into the analysis folder.

PyPoll
  Create a script to analyze election data for a rural small town's recent election to more efficiently count the votes using the election_data.csv.
  Find the following values using Python:
    The total number of votes cast
    A complete list of candidates who received votes
    The percentage of votes each candidate won
    The total number of votes each candidate won
    The winner of the election based on popular vote
    
  Print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results. Export the text file into the analysis folder.

Once each script is written and running correctly, be sure to push those scripts into GitHub to update the repository.

Resources:
  Module 3 Challenge and data: https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/4737/assignments/68515?module_item_id=1161248
  Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
  CU-VIRT-DATA-PT-12-2023-U-LOLC: 03-Python
    07-Ins_Conditionals
    11-Ins_Loop
    09-Stu_ReadComicBooksCSV
    03-Stu_HobbyBook-Dictionaries
    08-Evr_GraduatingFunctions
To get to 3 decimal places for percentage: https://medium.com/@coucoucamille/float-formatting-in-python-ccb023b86417 
Creating a set for the unique values in the list of voters: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/how-to-count-unique-values-inside-a-list-in-python#:~:text=Method%201%3A%20Using%20a%20Set&text=A%20set%20in%20Python%20is,using%20the%20len()%20function.
To push changes to GitHub: Data Boot Camp Lesson 3.3
